Working on a concept for a game. A cross between RimWorld and Dwarf
Fortress (among other games), it should be a very open game experience
both in terms of gameplay and player choice but also in terms of what
type of game unfolds.

It should be possible to play the game as an unmanned probe, a single
adventurer, a small crew of shipmates, or (in principle at least) an
entire civilization, or any size in between. No framerate guarantees ;)


Some scenarios to enable (but not hardcode):

 * Run your own (Culture) GSV: a metropolis-sized ship colony that is
   fully self-sufficient but roams space for the social interactions.
   The ship is truly enormous, its occupied space measured in cubic
   kilometres. It is enclosed in a force envelope much larger than the
   physical hull, making the environment around the ship's hull habitable.
   The outside of the ship features naturalesque parkland lit by
   artificial sunlight. The ship is run by autonomous AI and has millions
   of inhabitants in addition to hosting many smaller ships.

 * Rogue trader: Run a small smuggling operation with a handful of crew
   on a ship that just barely holds together, financing the last repair
   with an advance on the returns from your next haul. If you find
   yourself in real trouble you can always hide out in cryosleep in deep
   space for a few decades or so until all is forgotten.

 * The wayward colony ship: Some hundreds of colonists are stranded on
   their colony ship after discovering that their target planet is
   unsuitable. This was a foreseen (but unpopular) contingency, so even
   though everyone is irretrievably awake from cryosleep the ship can keep
   them alive for now. Now they must either modify their ship for more
   sustainable habitation or find a different colonization target.

 * I'll start my own society! With hookers! And blackjack!: A small
   group breaks with their very highly advanced civilization due to some
   ideological schism. Settling on a small, barren moon, they intend to
   use FTL probes and remote mining equipment to gather and process the
   supplies they will need to terraform their new home and set up all the
   other necessities of life.

 * You will be assimilated: You are a von Neuman probe, but instead of
   making copies of yourself you make paperclips. The paperclips require
   quality control, and you have decided that opposable thumbs are critical
   to good paperclip QC. Thus you travel the galaxy, collecting paperclip-
   suitable ores and organisms with opposable thumbs, leaving a cosmic
   trail of exquisite paperclips in your wake.


Specific thoughts:

 * Each encounter (anything from scanning space debris to landing on a
   planet) causes the world generator to fill in more of the world.
   History is generated as needed and integrated with previously
   generated lore (your sources may not be honest or impartial though).

 * Ships should be buildable in 3d, with the option of having more than
   one level.

 * Gravity should be orientable whichever way by use of some item.
   Rotational gravity should also be possible.

 * Gravity generators might create interesting options for subsidiary
   fliers using anti-gravity to regulate their height.

 * It should be possible to create subsidiary craft using the exact same
   rules as the main ship, only limited in (initial) size by the
   construction facilities.

 * The ship generator will be absolutely key to the setting - events will
   be emergent from the interactions between actors in the world.

 * Power distribution will probably be an important mechanic. Consider
   possible grid management options.

 * It should be possible to scale components for predictable effects -
   research the ability to build smaller items that require less input
   but produce the same output. Similarly you could research bigger
   sizes that produce more for the same input.


Some resource behaviours:

 * Fuel - a resource is consumed in a process

 * Product - a resource is produced by a process

 * Status - a resource exists at this level


Some ship generation BNF:

      # Definitions
      Ship := Module+

      Module := Propulsion
                Communications
                Power plant
                Life support
                Food
                Sleep
                AI core
                Weapons
                Control chair


      # Relations ( Provider -> Provides; Dependent <- Needs )
      Propulsion <- Power plant
                 <- Controls

      Communications <- Power

      Power plant -> Power

      Air supply <- Power

      Life support <- Air supply

      Food <- Kitchen inside Life suport
           <- Power

      Sleep <- Bed inside Life support

      AI core -> Controls
              <- Power

      Weapons <- Controls

      Control chair -> Controls
                    <- Air supply

      Cryocasket <- Bed
                 <- Power x2

      # Example ship types
      One-shot probe := Power plant, Communications

      Unmanned scout := Power plant x3, Propulsion, Communications, AI core

      Fighter := Power plant x7, Propulsion x3, Weapons x2,
                 Control chair, Air supply

      Unarmed singleship := Power plant x5, Propulsion x2, Control chair, Air supply,
                            Communications, Life support x3, Sleep, Food

      Cryogenic passenger liner := Power plant x210, Propulsion x16, Communications,
                                   AI core, Cryocasket x96 (Life support, Sleep, Power x2)
